>> Maximiliano Firtman: Hello,
my name is Maximiliano Firtman, Firt on X,
Firtman on other social networks.
We're going to talk today about PWAs,
about web apps, installed web apps,
progressive web apps and
all that stuff that will let us
maybe get out of that app store.
So first, really quickly,
something about myself and
my history doing web apps and PWAs.
I'm from Argentina,
I live in Buenos Aires, and
I've been a mobile web developer.
So I have started as a web developer,
doing HTML first,
then adding some JavaScript, then adding
some backend, PHP, ASP and so on.
And Actually,
a long time ago, 1996, right?
And I've been also doing a lot
of web apps, more than 150,
that were published over these
decades of doing websites.
And also, I'm an author.
So I've been authoring 13 books.
Actually, there is 14th
that will appear next.
I authored more than 70 courses
on different topics but
mainly they are around web development,
mobile development and web performance.
And because I also started
doing mobile apps around 2001,
that's actually before the iPhone
appeared, before the Android appeared.
One of the things that I always liked was
this way to merge my two technologies.
The web and the mobile space at the time,
that was actually the only
platform that was supporting apps.
So I was merging those things, and
actually that's kind of what
we're going to talk today, okay?
Merging the web and the mobile space or
at least it started like that.
And you can see a lot of books with a lot
of translations on different languages.
And some of them are actually
on the topic that we will cover.
So I also authored the learned PWA kind of
interactive ebook published web.dev,
so it's a Google Chrome website.
There is no official PWA reference
because we will see that later, but
as a spoiler, this is not a framework,
this is not a library, it's not an API.
So it's not owned by anyone.
So learn PWA at web.dev is a resource.
We will cover all the foundations
that is actually published there, but
there are much more that you
can continue learning there.
But I have been writing and
teaching about PWA for a while,
so I, for example, authored this cover
article on net magazine, a resting piece.
Well, it's a printed magazine,
it doesn't exist anymore, but
I was actually writing about PWA for
many years.
And by the way, I really like that cover,
I didn't design the cover, right?
I just wrote the technical article.
But because it has that DNA idea, and
the center of the DNA is the W the web.
And the whole thing here is that
PWA is just the DNA of the web.
That was the idea behind this design.
I think it's a good, let's say,
abstraction of what we will cover today,
okay?
So PWA is just the web,
it's the DNA of the web.
So, at Frontend Masters, so
I have a lot of courses on Frontend.
I will link to some of those courses
at some points during this workshop,
this course, because there
will be more API usage that we
won't have time today to cover.
But if you're interesting you can go and
get there.
Also, I have some mobile app courses on
the native side, the dark side, okay,
not the website.
So, I have some Swift [INAUDIBLE] and DART
courses as well because I have experience
also doing mobile apps
in the native world.
So that will that helps me actually
understand the power of the web,
and, of course, also the challenges.
So what are the limits?
So I hope that we can
today talk about that, and
then also have some backend courses
on PHP and Go, for example.
So we're going to cover, we're going
to start talking about what's a PWA.
Or if it's a PWA, a web app,
an installable web app,
a home screen web app.
Okay, we'll talk about that first.
What's the current state of the platform?
So compatibility, mainly.
We are going to see this in action.
So I wanna show you live samples of
installing and using the things.
Mobile and desktop installation.
How do we install PWAs?
So we will see how the process works
before actually doing our own PWA.
Then we will actually
work with the project.
So we will have a colab,
we have a small project.
It's a vanilla JavaScript project, and we
will convert that website, or, let's say,
upgrade that website into a progressive
web app, in to installable web.
That will be the process and
we will see each step one by one.
So starting with installation, we will
make that web app offline, so then we
don't see this little T Rex that right now
is the the icon of the offline web, right?
So, we wanna get rid of our
nice T-Rex from our web app.
And we will see some UI and
UX advanced techniques to make our
web app more app-like,
to have some more app-like experience
before finishing with publishing and
distribution.
So we will have the discussion of stores,
what's going on, how we can improve
installation and maybe what's next for
the platform in the next few years.